
I'm Caspar Hare, and this is 24.00, Introduction to
Philosophy.
I'm here at MIT standing underneath the philosophy
department.
Above me, many people are beavering away at this
activity that they call, that we call, philosophy.
But what is it that they're doing?
What is it that you want to do in taking this course?
What is philosophy?
So the best way to understand what philosophy is is to start
doing philosophy.
And we're going to get right to that.
We're going to get straight to it here.
But just before we do, I'll say a brief word about what
philosophy is-- what philosophy
is, seen from a distance.
So philosophers are interested in addressing certain kinds of
questions, certain kinds of problems.
And their problem is a very particular kind.
Philosophers are interested in questions such that A, they're
very general.
They're not questions about particular things, but they're
general questions.
B, they're questions that are of central
importance to human life.
And C, they're questions such that there's no agreed upon
method for answering questions of that kind.
There's no consensus as to how to go about answering
questions of that kind.
When you've got all those three things in a problem that
you're addressing, you're doing philosophy.
Why on earth would you care about philosophy?
Why care about that?
Well, there are several reasons why you might get
something out of doing philosophy.
First, philosophy is the mother of all intellectual
academic inquiry.
So the word "philosophy" comes to us from ancient Greece,
where a philosopher was a lover of wisdom.
And for the Greeks, almost any kind of general intellectual
inquiry counted as philosophy.
It didn't matter whether you were talking about the just
state and the nature of justice in the state.
It didn't matter if you were talking about the relationship
between gods and human beings.
It didn't matter if you were talking about why corks float
and iron sinks.
You were doing philosophy.
But then something kind of funny happened which was that
specialists arose who would devote themselves to asking
particular philosophical questions.
And they came to agree upon the methods for asking and
answering questions of that kind.
And at that point, they ceased to be called philosophers.
So this happened first in ancient Greece with respect to
the mathematicians.
The first mathematicians were philosophers.
Then we started calling them mathematicians.
They have a special word for it.
And it happened many, many, many times again over the
course of human history.
So 1,700 years later, natural scientists emerged from
philosophers.
And we started calling them natural scientists, chemists,
physicists, and the like.
Then we got to economists, and later still, psychologists,
and later still, logicians and linguists.
We're now in the 20th century.
All of these emerge from philosophy.
And the process is going to continue, doubtless.
The academic disciplines that emerge in the
22nd, 23rd, 24th century--
many of them are going to come from philosophy.
So if you study philosophy, you're really looking at the
root of human intellectual and academic inquiry.
It's interesting.
Second reason why you might care about it--
insofar as philosophers are addressing problems where
there's no instruction manual, there's no easy agreed upon
method for how to go about addressing a problem like
that, they're trying to sort out what kinds of problems can
be productively thought about and what kinds of problems
can't be productively thought about.
They're interested in finding out the limits of productive
human thought.
And that's just interesting, because we're interested in
trying to find out what your brain can productively do.
You have one.
You have a brain.
You're doing philosophy.
You're interested in finding out what it can do and
what it can't do--
what the limitations of the very thinking that you're
engaged in are.
And that's something that should matter to you.
Third, a rather more prosaic reason to be interested in
philosophy is that philosophy will give you skills that you
will find useful in your everyday life.
Most of the problems that we face in life are a little bit
like philosophical problems in the following sense:
There's no instruction manual for how to go about addressing
problems of that kind.
There's no step by step series of instructions such that you
can say, oh, yes, to address this problem, I just need to
do this and this and this and this.
You have to make up the instruction manual.
And philosophy will help you do this.
Philosophers are interested in bringing rigor and discipline
and bringing that to bear upon subject matter that is
intrinsically a little bit murky, a little bit messy, a
little bit rough.
And insofar as you do that, you will get skills that will
help you address the rough problems, which is most of the
problems that you face in everyday life.
So we're going to do a lot of philosophy here.
First, as I said, we're going to talk about God.
The next topic will be knowledge, then consciousness,
then free will, then personal identity over time.
These topics will be
distributed across 18 lectures.
Think of each lecture as demanding maybe one
hour of your time.
Some of the hour will be spent looking at videos.
Some of it will be spent answering questions.
If something doesn't make sense you, look at it again.
But anyway, think of each lecture as one
hour of sitting time.
Prior to the lecture, where there's an assigned reading,
please do the reading, because it will help you frame and
understand the lecture much better than if you just
approach the lecture unprepared.
And in addition to that, there'll be forums which
you're very strongly encouraged to participate in
where you get to discuss what you've been reading about,
looking at, answering questions about the lecture.
Philosophy is much better done when it's done in an active
way than when it's done in a passive way.
So the forums are your opportunity to engage with
other people to do philosophy actively.
And you'll have some opportunity to do further
exercises on top of that.

So that's it.
Let's get to it.
